IT Crowd
Assignment 3

Team's personal information:
Hawa Nour: s3662356
I am currently completing my second year at RMIT University studying Psychology. 
I am originally from Eritrea. my family and I migrated to Australia when I was just baby and its where we have remained ever since. 
One hobby of mine that I do quite often is reading. It is something that I have always done when I feel the need to escape reality for a little while. 
My interest in IT arose from me constantly reading books. Reading genres like sci-fi caused my interest to flourish. 
My previous IT experience is very limited however it is something that I have always wanted to pursue and this IT class has given me an avenue to finally get started on IT.

Yen Hai Tran: s3729125
I have moved to Australia from Vietnam a year ago and as you can guess, I speak both Vietnamese and English. 
I love Yoga and I learnt Yoga a long time ago but still keep practising it as it helps boost both my health, my energy and my feelings. 
I have a background in telecommunications and have worked in the industry for several years. 
I always enjoy keeping up with latest technologies in the Information Technology field. I like to tinker with my computer, to learn about how components in an IT system work together. 
I also love to build my own applications that can fulfill my own needs, as well as be beneficial to my friends and other people. 
The more I play with IT, the more my love for it grows, and I decided it is time to go back to the University to follow my passion. 
I'm currently working as a casual technical support for Sequel Home Based Care, an aged care company. The company has performance issues in their client management application, which I have fixed, and have learnt some new knowledge and experience in SQL server management.

Swee Kim Au Yong: s3535765
I was originally from Malaysia moved to Western Australia, Perth at 2010 then moved to Melbourne at 2012 or 2013 to finish my Year 11 and 12
My hobbies are basically just playing games, and playing a sport called Badminton while sometimes I would also do online courses out of boredom on the web and explore history related subjects. 
My interest in Information Technology started long when I first had my computer at the age of 12, ever since then whenever I came back from school I would sit down and explore the virtual world of different possibilities. 
My sister was also another reason why I definitely pinned on this course because of how she had describe the interesting subjects that could be done, the broad aspects of IT has different fields of interest led me to doing a diploma to try all spectrum of IT for the first time and I enjoyed it. 
My IT experience is introductory level only as I have only done and graduated from Diploma of IT, however I'm working towards to learning more in depth of what I had done in the diploma to pursue my interest and follow my sister's footsteps.

Nitya Handa: s3697811
I'm Nitya Handa, originally Indian but born and raised in Phuket, Thailand. I went to school in British international school, Phuket and that's where I was able to learn English and Thai. I learnt Hindi and home with my parents and now I am fluent in all three languages. I graduated from the same school with an IB diploma and IGCSE certificate. I enjoyed growing up on a tropical island it was very relaxing.
My hobbies include socializing watching TV shows but most of all I enjoy dancing.
I have always been interested in IT from a young age and always wanted to be a part of the community that creates the technology. 
My background in IT isn't that strong, I took IT in IGCSE and learnt HTML, CSS, and how to use software within the computers along with what the parts of it are.

Patrick Wright: s3628730
Originally I am from Hobart, Tasmania and I moved to Melbourne in 2014. I come from a commercial fishing family that specialized in Abalone and Crayfish, which outside of school took up most of my time and allowed me to have some wonderful experiences I will never forget. 
My hobbies include cardiovascular exercise, following the North Melbourne football team in the AFL, and computer gaming. 
My interest in Information Technology lies mainly in the field of software engineering, I am excited about the future possibilities of artificial intelligence and I am eager to take a path through university that will lead me to hopefully one day working in this area.
My previous experience in IT is very minimal however, when working in administration I did spend a little time assisting new staff with computer station setups, as well as some phone line patching in the company's server room.

Career Plans - Patrick
Compare and contrast career plans for everybody in the group. This will include our ideal jobs but everybody needs to come up with a career plan, for post study to get to the role they listed as their ideal job. 
Example:
Pick a few key attributes of each role then table them up and do some comparing and contrasting. Focus on soft skills and technical skills.

Group Processes-Hawa
I think we worked well together for our assignment 2. 
Everyone took on a section that they were capable of completing well. 
I think one thing that ensured that our group dynamic would work perfectly was that each member embraced their responsibility and ensured that they would be meeting the groups requirements. 
One thing that made communication for our group go smoothly was the use of our Facebook Messenger group. 
Whenever each of us had a problem we would send a message and other members would help them with whatever issue they were facing. 
Some changes we would hope to introduce for this assignment is using GitHub more. 
Now that everyone has learned how to navigate its features we can all contribute to uploading our work onto it. 
Another change to introduce is better time management of uploading work. 
This would ensure that we have enough time to review work before the due date.  

Timeframe - Edward

(Can be reviewed in the documentation as tables aren't implementable on GitHub)



Project Risks - Edward

Risks we would have as a group would be the timeframe develop could not be one hundred percent accurate as time spent on each sections 
of the project development could be longer than it potentially needed, For example. Research and Development would take more than two 
hours for each person depending on each individual's skill set and capability to be attuned to the tools needed necessary to use. 

Communications can also be a potential risk as we only have tools like Facebook Messenger as a way to contact everyone, 
however to act against the risk we do make up for group meetings to get everyone together to update weekly on the progression of the 
project development. However if group meetings, potentially several people or most people won’t be able to make it sometimes, another 
solution for the communication problem would be using Trello, Github and also Discord. Trello helps keep everyone updated on who has 
done a particular tasks and sends a mail to everyone’s inbox to see the work completion is done by whom, while Github helps update the 
code by the project member. Discord mainly helps with the voice communications incase a particular task or development needs a 
sophisticated detailed explanation by the project manager Patrick or the Front-End and Back-End Developers.

Time-Management Risks is another potential problem for most of the project members, every member will have their own allocated time to 
work on the project, potentially it could run into problems like one of the members needs to take the week off due to unexpected family
problems, which could split the workload to only the members active which would increase more time needed to spend on developing the 
main functionality or needed to have debugging done which could potentially break off the timeline schedule.

Hardware Risks most of the project members don’t have a backup method as we are running on a laptop to work on most of the time.
Incase of a power failure on the laptops, a backup method must be required to keep important code developments. Daily and Weekly 
updates must be done and saved on a hard-disk or a USB drive to save any completed work to prevent data loss.

Performance Risks can potentially happen, inconsistency of the quality of code written could result in unapproved work by the project 
manager and client, which would force the members to scrap the current functionalities and rework on them within the timeframe given 
which takes up way too much time and project finalization would have a longer time to reach, client would potentially drop the project 
which would result in a failure.


Group processes and communications. - Edward

Meetings for our group would take daily,our Project Manager would rent a space for our team to 
work at, everyday in order to keep everyone updated easily on the work and backups can be made easily. 
Everyone would have a clear idea of the objective and the tasks on hand, the chances of straying from the scope would be much lesser
compared to working in our own time if it’s a daily meeting face to face with everyone of the group. Discord is our main voice comms 
amongst the group just in case if one or two members couldn’t make it in time for the daily group meetings, team can organize a discord
meeting instead. One of the reasons why we picked Discord is due to the complexity of the task description needs to be, Project Manager 
or Developers can use this to their advantage to explain or detail the specifications to other members of the group easily rather than 
texting to each member the tasks one by one where instead everyone could be grouped up in one chat channel. Facebook Messenger is our 
communications mainly to see who’s working and who’s turning up for the daily meetings or any members can’t attend due to medical 
reasons or personal family problems


Ideal Jobs from Assignment Two
Turning this information into an infographic
Clinical Psychologist
Soft Skills: https://www.online-psychology-degrees.org/list-articles/five-soft-skills-to-develop-as-a-psychologist/
Communication
Ethics
Paitence

Soft Skills for IT roles
Communication
Problem Solving
Organisational

Technical Skills
Full Stack Application Developer
Front-end 
HTML
CSS
JavaScript
Back-end
Ruby / Java / Python
Version control software: SVN or GIT
PHP Frameworks: Zend / Symfony

Web Developer
HTML
CSS
JavaScript

AI Engineer
Coding Skills (Java)
Math Skills 
Machine Learning Frameworks (TensorFlow)

To compare and contrast the variety of roles we have inside our group, the information needs to be split into two sections; soft skills, and technical skills. 
In the soft skills section, there is a big commonality, and some differences. The main commonality we see is that all the IT based roles in our group share the same soft skills as each other, leaving psychology as an outlier. Although Psychology is an outlier, it does share the most important soft skill which is communication. Communication plays a vital role in almost any job so it is not surprising to see it high on both lists. But outside of that psychology’s values of ethics and patience whilst still very important skills do not rank as high in the IT world. This is likely due to the nature of the work undertaken, whilst both roles involve communication, psychology focuses on one-on-one human interaction of a personal nature, whereas IT involves collaboration from a team to solve technical problems in an organised manner.

Project Description 
The members of  The IT Crowd come from many different backgrounds and interests like sports, reading and dancing that very clearly 
lead to different careers paths. But what brings us all together is the interest in IT. We all have an interest in IT from exploring 
and admiring current technologies to wondering what it could become in the future. IT is so vast that it could come under and benefit 
any career, like, changing the way you watch AFL and how the score is collected, creating a more smart way of reading with many 
creative devices. 

The members of the group are not highly skilled in IT and have significant experience but are very keen to learn more about how to 
carry out this project and from there develop the skills along with it. The skills required to learn would mostly be software 
languages, this will then allow each member of the group to further on use it in the future with developing apps or other potential 
projects related to their career path. 

This Project is called PTA ( public transport assistant. It is a mobile application for both Android and iOS designed for the 
public of Australia who use public transport. This application is designed to make the user experience easier and less stressful 
to understand the roads and destinations, more importantly when they have reached their destination. The purpose of this application 
is to allow ease the traveling experience by allowing the user to input data such has how much time before the destination they want 
to get a reminder and how many meters before the destination do they want to get a reminder. This will clarify and prepare the users 
to get of at their wanted stop without any hesitation and time wastage from arriving to the wrong stop. 

This seemed like an interesting idea to the group because most of us are not originally from Melbourne, and getting around the place 
can be hard as it gets nerve wracking if we end up in the wrong place, making journey stress free is something worth trying especially
because we most of us have just started uni and need to know how to get around the place. 

For Android this application will be coded (back end) using java and the IDE would be Android Studio as they are most compatible,
easy and the members of the group are comfortable with understanding and developing a software using these languages. 
Android Studio is good medium to run its debugging feature and compatible with implementing java. For iOS on the other hand the 
language that is going to be used is Swift and the IDE would be XCode, again with its compatibility with iOS and each other. 
With everyone’s background in IT is it important to mention that there would be a requirement for more research into learning and 
understanding the softwares.     

This application would have a very important feature of using GPS in order for it to be connected to the roads and destination 
of Australia and provide data to the application. There will also be a GPS tracker with will know the users location at all 
times to provide accurate data so the application is able to calculate the distance and time for the users arrival and when it's 
most accurate for the reminder alarm to buzz off.  

There is a very high potential of growth with this project, with the current popularity and highly trending Virtual assistance, 
there could possibly be an assistant guiding the user through the streets, not just providing them information on the streets but
potentially the history of the destination, what's it famous for and other information that may be significant, especially to tourists 
or people who are new to Australia. This is also an example of  when the parts of this project can be incorporated with our passion,
getting to know the place and the history of the place just by typing down your history, and another passion related to this could be,
photography, having amazing pictures for the destinations. 

Aims 
Our aim is intended to not just those who use public transport on a daily basis, but especially to the users who use public transport 
to get to new places and dont understand how to get there. This could be tourists or new comers who are still figuring out the country 
and or locals who already know their way around the country, because let's face it, there is no way of actually knowing every part of 
the country, there is assistance required. 
Being able to achieve a stressless journey can be a difficult thing especially when you don't know when your stop is coming or how far 
you are from the destination. This is why PTA aims to relax its users and give them a peace of mind by providing them the feature of 
a reminder  X minutes and X distance before their destination. This will result in the user's satisfaction and allowing them to 
concentrate on other things other than their journey like socialising and maybe even working during that time.

This project will be carried out in different phases starting with research, requirements and technology needed, planning the roles, 
designing, software developing, testing and then launching. This will allow the project to be carried out and flow in a very organised
and calculated way, decreasing room for error. The roles would be split according to skills and personality, which we figure out from 
the personality test we did in assignment 1.

If the aims and goals are not met then there would be more research done as to what the errors are and how to fix them, this could 
take up more time therefore the worst thing that could happen is if the timeline changes and the length of the launch time increases 
delaying the whole process. 

Plans and Progress

Project overview-hawa
Our project idea aims to create an application that will be available on both android and apple devices. The project idea is a Public Transport Assistant Application that strives to ease the stress of using public transport. Using the GPS features on the device the application aims to set prompts that appear as notifications informing the user of their location and the distance remaining of their travel. Our application will also be able to function efficiently without the need for WIFI connection. 
A main feature of this application is that it is to be set in real-time. This along with the reminders ensures that users will have the time to relax and not worry about missing their destination. This project aims to be one that can function in the background allowing travellers to use their device leisurely all the while receiving reminders throughout their journey. 
One main motivation for this application is that it aims to create an ideal experience for travellers and eases the burden of travelling to new destinations. Another motivation that propelled this project idea was that the existing travel applications were not up to standard and had problematic features that our transport helper aims to overcome. A current trend that exists nowadays is being a foodie and trying new restaurants and cafes. Our application fits into this trend because it makes travelling to these restaurants that may be set in an unfamiliar settings easier and enjoyable. A reason that this project idea would be interesting to a potential future employer is that although this project idea is not a new one it demonstrates that we are capable of pinpointing a problematic situation and creating a more efficient solution to the already existing ones.
Some applications that are quite similar to our transport assistant are google maps, MapQuest, maps.me and several others. These applications use GPS to assist commuters in reaching their requested destinations. These applications aim to do the same thing our transport assistant does but differ in some features. Our application will differ from others by having increased tracking accuracy to ensure that it is working in real-time. This feature is lacking in applications like google maps where the delayed time-frame and tracking issues often causes me and many others to miss our desired destinations. Another feature that makes our application differ from the rest is that we aim to create an application that works efficiently without the need for WIFI connection. Often times travel application features are limited because WIFI network issues that can cause lagging within the application and create a hinderance for the user. Our travel helper strives to overcome these issues by not being dependent on WIFI. This allows travellers to use our travel assistant even when they are travelling to an area that has limited WIFI connections. Although our application is able to function offline, when there is accessible WIFI our application is able to inform users of travel delays that may be caused due to accidents or road developments occurring within their destination path. 



Phase 1	Project setup
Main tasks	Requirement gathering/ Analysis
Date/duration	2 weeks
Deliverables	User requirements
Aim and goals
Functional requirements
Resources	Project manager, all team members

Phase 2	System analysis
Main tasks	Analyse tools & technologies
Date/duration	1 weeks
Deliverables	Frond-end tools
Back-end tools
Design tools
Resources	Project manager, Front-end engineer, Back-end engineer

Phase 3	Production planning
Main tasks	Break down main functionalities & assign resources
Date/duration	2 weeks
Deliverables	Scope, detail functionality, resources
Resources	Project manager, all team members


Phase 4	Initial UI/UX design
Main tasks	Low-fidelity UI/UX design and wireframe
Date/duration	1 weeks
Deliverables	User groups, Personas, Context scenarios, Key path scenarios & wireframes
Resources	Project manager, Business Analyst, UX designer

Phase 5	Prototype design
Main tasks	High fidelity UI/UX design (interaction prototype)
Date/duration	2 weeks
Deliverables	User groups, Personas, Context scenarios, Key path scenarios & wireframes
Resources	Project manager, Business Analyst, UX designer


Phase 6	Software development
Main tasks	Coding
Date/duration	4 weeks
Deliverables	Plan a journey module 
Set reminder module 
Trigger reminder module
Bookmarks manager module
Resources	Project manager, Front-end engineer, Back-end engineer

Phase 7	Testing & debugging
Main tasks	Functional testing, System integration testing, Usability testing, Performance testing and debugging
Date/duration	2 weeks
Deliverables	App is fully tested in all aspects
Resources	Project manager, QA engineer and Testers, Front-end engineer, Back-end engineer

Phase 8	Beta testing
Main tasks	Launch the beta testing version of the app via HOCKEYAPP, the popular beta distribution platform for both iOS and Android
Date/duration	1 week
Deliverables	Beta testing versions for iOS and Android
Resources	Project manager, Front-end engineer, Back-end engineer, QA engineer & Tester

Phase 9	Launch
Main tasks	Launch the first versions of the app on the App store for iOS, and the Google Play store for Android 
Date/duration	1 week
Deliverables	The first versions for iOS and Android
Resources	Project manager, Front-end engineer, Back-end engineer

Project details
Phase 1: Requirement gathering/ Analysis
Analysing users’ current issues and needs
Conduct user research methods to gather data from the users using public transport by conducting quick surveys on a wide range of users via the social network and direct observation some real users while they are using other navigation apps for traveling by public transport. Our aim is to understand their current issues as well as their needs to ensure that our product application will satisfy true user requirements.

Identify main functionalities of the app
Base on the user requirements and analysing functionalities of current competitive products (google map, PTV), we conduct group meetings all members to brainstorm a list of major functionalities of the product to enable users to accomplish tasks to reach their goals. Moreover, setting the scope of the project is also determined at this stage to make sure we are always on the right track to create expected deliverables within a tight timeframe.

Outcomes:
-	Current issues of users using public transport
•	Don’t know when to get off
•	Easy to get lost

-	Current needs:
•	Be reminded of when to get off on time without constantly keeping track of their journey or destination
•	Have multiple options for setting up the reminders based on time or distance to the destination

-	App functionalities:
•	Set up reminder for an address
•	Set up reminders for a journey
•	Bookmark addresses and journeys
•	Flexible options for setting up reminders based on time and location
Phase 2: System requirement 
This was conducted via group meeting of project manager and technical members to analyse the insight of tools and technologies needed to implement the mobile apps in two versions of iOS and Android. All of hardware, software and licence are listed explicitly to assess and prepare initial resources needed for the project.
Outcomes: As described in the tools and technologies section.
Phase 3: Production planning
As we have requirements and functionalities well defined, the purpose of this stage is breaking down the main functionalities into smaller tasks until they cannot be further subdivided. This makes management of division of work, assignment of human resources and tracking of the project progress easier.
 

Phase 4: Initial low fidelity mock ups and wireframe
In this phase, we focus on defining target user groups, creating personas and context scenarios. Then, proceed creating the key path scenarios together with wireframes to define low fidelity mock-ups for the app. The main point of mock-ups/wireframes is to clarify the project functionalities and shape the design direction. User testing is preferred to start from this stage to make sure the app is on track in the design and business sense. 
Outcomes:

   
Phase 5:  UI/UX design (Interaction Prototype)
At this stage, UX/UI designer will build the interaction prototype of user interface of the app using Sketch and InvisionApp. Prototypes are used to examine how users interact with the app, to reveal usability problems and find out whether the implemented functionalities have been meeting the users’ requirements or not. At this point, we start a cycle of usability testing and fixing by conducting user testing with the real users on the prototype and observation of how they react, how many issues they meet, how quickly they can perform their tasks, then create a new improved prototype and start the process again. 
Phase 6:  Software development
Descriptions of task implementations
Task 	Front End deliverables	Back End deliverables
Search for an address (1.1)
	o	Display a map with location where the user currently is	o	Access and load maps data from Google Maps API
	o	Display search bar for user to enter an address	o	Capture data input and send to Google Maps API to search for the location
Bookmark addresses (3.1)	o	Display a Save button allowing the user to bookmark an address	o	Save the address to database
Set reminder for an address (1.2)	o	Display Reminder button allowing the user to set up reminder to the destination	o	Wait for user input
Set up reminder: Option 1: 
Auto (2nd last stop)
(4.1)
	o	When user click Reminder button, display options for user to select reminder modes:
	Option 1: When reaching the second last stop before transit stops or destination 	o	Capture the user selection for reminder mode and analysing the route accordingly.
	Option 1: Analyse the route and return a list of second last stops before the transit stops or destination
Set up reminder: Option 2: Location based (4.2)		Option 2: When reaching X metres to transit stops or destination 

		Option 2: Analyse the route and return a list of points with distance X to the transit stops and the destination
Set up reminder: Option 3: Time based 
(4.3)		Option 3: When reaching X minutes to transit stops or destination		Option 3: Analyse the route and return a list of the transit stops and the destination, which will be used to dynamically calculate the points having X minutes to reach them 
Keep track of user location (1.3)
	o	Display the current location of the user along the route in the map (1.3)


	o	Start keeping track of the user location in real time using the phone GPS tracking function
o	Continuously compare the current location of the user with the destination address
Trigger notification on the address (1.4)
	o	Display a notification to the screen and a sound when a reminder is triggered from the back end (1.4)
	o	For option 1 and option 2, when the user reaches a point in the list, a notification will be trigger. For option 3, dynamically calculate the time to the points in the list based on the current distance and the current speed and trigger a notification when the time selected to reach the points is met.


Task	Front End deliverables	Back End deliverables
Plan a journey (2.1)
	o	Display a map with location where the user currently is	o	Access and load maps data from Google Maps API
	o	Display search bar for user to enter departure location (default is the current location) and destination location	o	Capture data input and send to Google Maps API to search for the locations 

	o	Acknowledge and confirm locations selected by user	o	Get back the results of the locations from Google Maps API to display in front end
	o	Display a Direction button allowing the user to plan a journey from the origin to the destination	o	Send request for routing using public transport from the origin to destination to Google Maps API and get back the route options
	o	Display a list of route options by public transport for the journey	o	Wait for user to select a route option

	o	User to select a route option for the journey	o	Send request to Google Maps API to get all the details for the route option selected by the user, including all the stops
o	Analyse the route and note down the second last stop of the journey and those 
Bookmark journeys (3.2)
	o	Display a Save button on each journey allowing the user to bookmark the journey	o	Save the address to database
Set reminders for a journey (2.2)	o	Display Reminder button on each journey allowing the user to set up reminder for the journey	o	Wait for user input
Set up reminder: Option 1: 
Auto (2nd last stop)
(4.1)
	o	Display an option for user to select reminder modes:
	Option 1: When reaching the second last stop before transit stops or destination

	o	Capture the user selection for reminder mode and analysing the route accordingly.
	Option 1: Analyse the route and return a list of second last stops before the transit stops or destination
Set up reminder: Option 2: Location based (4.2)		Option 2: When reaching X metres to transit stops or destination 
		Option 2: Analyse the route and return a list of points with distance X to the transit stops and the destination
Set up reminder: Option 3: Time based 
(4.3)		Option 3: When reaching X minutes to transit stops or destination


		Option 3: Analyse the route and return a list of the transit stops and the destination, which will be used to dynamically calculate the points having X minutes to reach them 
Keep track of user locations (2.3)

	o	User confirm the selection on the journey	o	Store the reminder list in the background for keeping track of the journey and triggering reminders later

	o	Start the journey with the selected route and reminder option	o	Start keeping track of the user location in real time using the phone GPS tracking function
	o	Display the current location of the user along the route in the map	o	Continuously compare the current location of the user with the points in the reminder list generated in the previous step.
Trigger notifications on the journey (2.4)
	o	Display a notification to the screen and a sound when a reminder is triggered from the back end
	o	For option 1 and option 2, when the user reaches a point in the list, a notification will be trigger. For option 3, dynamically calculate the time to the points in the list based on the current distance and the current speed and trigger a notification when the time selected to reach the points is met.

Phase 7:  Software testing
In this stage, the app is tested before it is delivered to target users. During the software testing phase, the testers aim to find errors or bugs that need to be resolved within the app as well as verifying whether the app behaves as expected or not to make amendments if necessary. Once issues are found, testers inform the developers about the details of the issues to be fixed and the fixed bugs will be updated in the latest version. This cycle is repeated until all requirements have been tested and all the bugs have been fixed and the software is ready to be shipped.
Phase 8: Beta testing
In this stage, all bugs and errors are supposed to be fixed from the software testing phase. Beta testing is carried out by beta users of the app in the real environment which help us to get the insight of how users are using the apps. This stage is the crucial step to find the usability issues as well as unforeseen errors of the apps to create a high-quality products or services which meet user requirements.
We aim to find about as many beta testers as possible via both online and offline sources such as social media (Facebook, Twitter), forums and communities (Quora, Reddit) and personal contacts. Any bugs and usability issues found will be fixed or adjusted and updated, to prepare for the first version of the app.
Phase 9: Launch
As all bugs fixed and all usability issues resolved, the first versions of the app are released on App store for iOS, and Google Play for Android.

Roles 
The roles have been distributed according the skills required, personal interest and the best fit personality. 

Project manager - Patrick (phase 3)
Patrick will be responsible for the whole project; the success and failure and the end product would reflect on him. 
His role includes him to be able to plan, execute and close projects as well as managing his entire team. From the 
Myers-Briggs personality tests in Assignment 1, Patrick is a Executive making him and extrovert with good sensory, a 
thinker and has good judgment. These qualities are very crucial for becoming a leader and guiding the group. Being sensory 
can help with him being able to understand expectations and coming up with ways to manage them. This is the best fit for Patrick. 

Front end developer -Swee Kim Au Yong (phase 5)
Front end developer is more of how the application looks, how its created and laid out. This is creating the 
application itself. The necessary skills to this would by knowing the language itself, which Swee Kim does as he has the
skill set of an individual who has completed an IT diploma.

Back end developer - Yen Hai Tran (phase 6)
Back end developers are the programmers that code the logical core computational functions and features of the 
application. Yen Hai Trans job is to be able to code the data to the app and that requires the heaviest amount of programming. This is a perfect time for an as she is the most skilled and has done or programs and creates applications as a hobby. She is someone who can get this job done quickly, effectively and efficiently. 

Debugger - Nitya (phase 6)
Debugging is a process in computer programming that identifies the problem, separates it and the either solves the 
problem or figures out a way and suggests a way for it to be solved. Then finally it is tested after the corrections.We are using the software Android Studio which enables a great amount of debugging. Debugging for Nitya is more out of interest and skill than personality, it is because of its potential and how much this skill of using the softwares can help in the future and with technologies to come. This is a necessary skill for software development and programming, Nitya’s ideal job of an AI engineer requires just that. 

Tester - Hawa (phase 7)
Hawas responsibilities include assurance that the software works with every feature of the application and then report 
back to the development team with the results. These are usually done manually which means that she needs to be assessing the code. 

Testing: nitya

Software Testing:
This occurs in phase 7: the process will run on a constant loop of developing the software, debugging it, testing it for any errors, testing the program and fixing the issues until everything operates normally. 

Beta testing:
There are many methods available to be able to test this application and see if its able to fulfil users requirements and ease their journey as the aim says. The bases of any of the testing methods is to assemble a target audience of regular public transport users, who only need public transport to get to one destination and back daily and new comers who need public transport to go to various new locations and require more assistance to make them less nervous. Although the regular travelers may need it this app high emphasis and requires data back from the newcomers. Starting with ratings, after the users have finished their trip and arrived at their destinations by using the application and its features, the application can come up with 5 starts and ask the users how they would rate the ease of the journey. That could provide feedback from many users and more regularly. What would provide more insight on how the application is working and how the user experience is going is by having a pop up survey and questionnaire asking the users about their experience, accuracy, if they would recommend the app to their friends and and most importantly how can it be improved. 
These tests usually occurs during the time the application is already exposed to the market and up and running, or when there needs to be an update so for further research. The testing method that is required before making the application public is to gather a set of people (preferably 30-50) that fit the category of the newcomers target audience and for them to use this application of a week and give a daily review on how the application is working. This includes reviews about: 
calculation accuracy
glitches
how many hours they used the application 
how important the application was to them 
If they could have used another application or go without this one
How is the design and if it's able to maximise the main purpose of this application
What are the improvements
What are the problems 
What can be changed
This will allow us as a group to work on it and make the final product user friendly. Another branch of the same testing method could be asking some of the users to use another application such as PTV or Google Maps and compare the two with those set of questions. Ofcourse the set of people may not work for free, which is why we would need to be open to spending some money and trusting the fact that the reviews and reports are helpful. We could gather the target audience by asking the people we know and and telling them to pass it on, asking tourist in public spots like the airport to help out or advertise this position on social media (but its most likely going cost money for individuals to agree)  


Group Reflections

Hawa's reflection
I think one thing that really went really well was that we all had adapted to each others working styles because of our previous group work on assignment 2 and the presentation. 
Because of this we were quick to jump into allocating sections and getting a start on our work. 
Something that we could have improved on is our time management.
As previously stated in group processes, time management is a feature that we could improve to ensure that we are working at our best. 
What surprised me when completing this assignment was how much easier it was to complete the workload.
Working on the previous assignments showed me what was required of me and this knowledge assisted me in the completion of this assignment. 

Nitya’s reflection
Working with the IT Crowd has been more than a pleasure because they are nothing but supportive and efficient. The parts were equally divided and done effectively with detail. 
After  working on Assignment 2 together we realized each others working style and split each others parts accordingly. This helped the work do get done sooner and with more ease. 
With our ideas collectively being similar and a good understanding of the project idea we could trust each other with the information from each of their sections and proceed with our sections. 
This assignment was  not too challenging, due to our communication and understanding of the project. We communicated the same way as we did from our last assignment and that's using the facebook group 
chat and what surprised me was that each of us was getting the hang of github more which again, made the assignment and the experience overall straight forward and trouble free.  


