
This is our assignment file, please address assignment questions in here so that they can be uploaded to our group website.

Hawa Nour-s3662356
my personal information

I am currently completing my second year at Rmit University studying Psychology. 
I am originally from Eritrea. my family and i migrated to Australia when i was just baby and its where we have remained ever since. 
One hobby of mine that i do quite often is reading. It is something that i have always done when i feel the need to escape reality for a little while. 
My interest in IT arose from me constantly reading books. Reading genres like sci-fi caused my interest to flourish. 
My previous IT experience is very limited however it is something that i have always wanted to pursue and this IT class has given me an avenue to finally get started on IT. 

Test Results
Learning styles: solitary and physical 
Myers-Briggs: INFP-A 
Big-five: High on openness and agreeableness 

ideal job
I think a job as a Clinical Psychologist would fit me quite well as Psychology is something that i have always been interested in and it is what i am currently studying. 
Some of the things that i would look for in a job as a Clinical Psychologist is a position working within the CBD and one that is part-time so that i can have time to pursue my hobbies outside of work.
  


Personal Information - Patrick Wright

Name: Patrick Wright
Student No: s3628730
Web: http://s3628730.s3-website-ap-southeast-2.amazonaws.com/html5up-stellar%20copy/

Originally I am from Hobart, Tasmania and I moved to Melbourne in 2014. I come from a commercial fishing family that specialised in Abalone and Crayfish, which outside of school took up most of my time and allowed me to have some wonderful experiences I will never forget. 
My hobbies include cardiovascular exercise, following the North Melbourne football team in the AFL, and computer gaming. 
My interest in Information Technology lies mainly in the field of software engineering, I am excited about the future possibilities of artificial intelligence and I am eager to take a path through university that will lead me to hopefully one day working in this area.
My previous experience in IT is very minimal however, when working in administration I did spend a little time assisting new staff with computer station setups, as well as some phone line patching in the company’s server room.

Test Outcomes
THIS SECTION IS TO BE COMBINED AND COMPARED WITH EVERYONE ELSE’S
Myers Briggs Result: Extrovert Sensing Thinking Judgemental (ESTJ)
Learning Style Result: Auditory
Problem Solving Ability Result: Reasonable but requires improvement

Ideal Job
THIS SECTION IS TO BE COMBINED AND COMPARED WITH EVERYONE ELSE’S
My Ideal Job is being an Artificial Intelligence Engineer at Google. 

Anna personal information
Name: Yen Hai Tran
Student number: S3729125
Web: www.annatran.net
I have moved to Australia from Vietnam a year ago and as you can guess, I speak both Vietnamese and English. I love Yoga and I learnt Yoga a long time ago but still keep practising it as it helps boost both my health, my energy and my feelings. I have a background in telecommunications and have worked in the industry for several years. I always enjoy keeping up with latest technologies in the Information Technology field. I like to tinker with my computer, to learn about how components in an IT system work together. I also love to build my own applications that can fulfill my own needs, as well as be beneficial to my friends and other people. The more I play with IT, the more my love for it grows, and I decided it is time to go back to the University to follow my passion. I'm currently working as a casual technical support for Sequel Home Based Care, an aged care company. The company has performance issues in their client management application, which I have fixed, and have learnt some new knowledge and experience in SQL server management.
My idea job is the Full Stack Application Developer, which requires contributions in all levels of a web application, from back end and database to front-end. I like to have a complete picture of a product I build, to understand all technical aspects of the application, and contribute to all phases of the project, so a full-stack developer position is appealing to me.
Test outcome:
Myers-Briggs test result: Introvert Sensing Feeling Perceiving - ISFP: The Adventure
Learning style test result: Visual learner
Agreeableness test result: Average in Agreeableness

Personal Information - Edward Au Yong Swee Kim
	

Name: Swee Kim Au Yong(Edward)
Student Number: s3535765
Website Profile: https://s3-ap-southeast-2.amazonaws.com/s3535765/s3535765_IT/index.html
	

I was originally from Malaysia moved to Western Australia, Perth at 2010 then moved to Melbourne at 2012 or 2013 to finish my Year 11 and 12
My hobbies are basically just playing games, and playing a sport called Badminton while sometimes I would also do online courses out of boredom on the web and explore history related subjects.
My interest in Information Technology started long when I first had my computer at the age of 12, ever since then whenever I came back from school I would sit down and explore the virtual world of different possibilities.
My sister was also another reason why I definitely pinned on this course because of how she had describe the interesting subjects that could be done, the broad aspects of IT has different fields of interest led me to doing a diploma to try all spectrum of IT for the first time and I enjoyed it.
My IT experience is introductory level only as I have only done and graduated from Diploma of IT, however I'm working towards to learning more in depth of what I had done in the diploma to pursue my interest and follow my sister's footsteps.
	
Test Outcomes:
Myers Briggs Result: Introverted, Intuitive, Feeling, Prospecting, Turbulent.
VARK Results: Visual = 4; Aural = 4; Read/Write = 6; Kinesthetic = 10;
Creativity Score = 48.89(Below Average)
	

Ideal Job
Web Developer, Programmer


Name: Nitya Handa
Student No: s3697811
Web: https://s3-ap-southeast-2.amazonaws.com/s3697811itassignment1/index.html
 
 I'm Nitya Handa, originally Indian but born and raised in Phuket, Thailand. I went to school in British international school, Phuket and that's where I was able to learn English and Thai.
 I learnt Hindi and home with my parents and now I am fluent in all three languages. I graduated from the same school with an IB diploma and IGCSE certificate. I enjoyed growing up on a tropical
 island it was very relaxing. My hobbies include socializing watching TV shows but most of all I enjoy dancing. I have always been interested in IT from a young age and always wanted to be a part 
 of the community that creates the technology. My background in IT isn't that strong, I took IT in IGCSE and learnt HTML, CSS, and how to use software within the computers along with what the parts
 of it are. I'm Nitya Handa, originally Indian but born and raised in Phuket, Thailand. I went to school in British international school, Phuket and that's where I was able to learn English and Thai.
 I learnt Hindi and home with my parents and now I am fluent in all three languages. I graduated from the same school with an IB diploma and IGCSE certificate. I enjoyed growing up on a tropical island
 it was very relaxing. My hobbies include socializing watching TV shows but most of all I enjoy dancing. I have always been interested in IT from a young age and always wanted to be a part of the community
 that creates the technology. My background in IT isn't that strong, I took IT in IGCSE and learnt HTML, CSS, and how to use software within the computers along with what the parts of it are.
 
·       Myers Brigs Test results: protagonist, with a diplomatic role and social engagement strategy. ENFJ-T ode.
·   	Learning style test results: Visual/Tactical learner
·   	Open Source Psychometrics Project: 93 percentile  Extroverted, 70 percentile emotional stability, 71 percentile agreeableness, 41 percentile conscientiousness and 11 percentile intellect/ imagination.
Ideal job
AI Engineer at Google

My ideal job is an artificial intelligence engineer at Google. I chose google because of its facilities and resources available for the employees. Google is a company that can make a project 
idea into reality regardless of the cost and potential as it promotes creativity. I enjoy creating and technology, therefore being an engineer and being able to give new ideas and create new robots and 
devices from scratch is what I think would be fit for me. This job will allow me to push harder and gain more knowledge from what I already have.

Team Profile - hawa
The test outcomes for our team profile revealed that both Edward and I received high on kinaesthetic/ physical learning. 
This gives the group an advantage when it comes to completing the work and creating the website as physical work is where we excel best.
Patrick received auditory learning which we can benefit from when voicing our ideas as Patrick is there to listen and come to a conclusion. 
We all received average to high on agreeableness which minimizes the chances of our group having problematic disagreements. 
Nitya along with Anna both received the result of being visual learners which is advantageous as they can use books, graphs and data to collect information from our group.  
Another aspect that our group can benefit from is that Anna received the result of being an adventurer on Myers-Briggs which will push us to try new things and enhance our creativity. 
Patrick received an executive result for Myers-Briggs which is great as he can guide us into the right direction and take charge when things are going awry.

Ideal Jobs- hawa
Some of the common elements of our career choices are that both Patrick and Nitya wish to become AI Engineers at Google. 
This position requires them to have a degree in computer science and possess the experience of writing software in languages such as Python and Scala. 
This differs from Anna, who wants to be a full stack application developer and doesn’t require a degree for her position. 
She does however, need experience working with Java and JavaScript.
Edward requires a degree in computer science or IT to become a Web Developer and needs experience working with HTML, CSS, PHP and jQuery. 
Most of the members of our group desire a job in the IT industry which differs from me as I aspire to be a Clinical Psychologist. 
This position requires me to have a degree in psychology along with masters.
All our positions are similar in that are going to be working with a team therefore we need to enhance our communication and social skills.


Industry Data
Job titles in our group
• Clinical Psychologist
• Web Developer
• AI Engineer (x2)
• Full Stack Application Developer

Demand ranking from employers
1. AI Engineers
2. Web Developer
3. Full Stack Developer
4. Clinical Psychologist (not listed and unable to find comparison to other roles)

General Skills
• Communication
• Problem Solving
• Troubleshooting
• Analytical
• Time Management
• Team Work
• Organisational
• Planning

IT-Specific Skills 
• HTML / CSS / Javascript
• General purpose programming language (Java, Python)
• SQL
• Windows / Mac experience
• Data Structures / Algorithms
• Deep Learning Framework (TensorFlow)
• Software Design experience
• Github experience

IT-specific skills ranking
1. SQL
2. Javascript
3. General purpose programming language (Java)
4. Microsoft Windows experience
5. Data structures / Algorithms (software engineering)
6. Deep Learning Framework (software engineering)
7. Github experience
8. Software Design experience

General skills ranking
1. Communication
2. Problem Solving
3. Organisational
4. Team Work
5. Troubleshooting
6. Planning
7. Time Management
8. Analytical

Three highest IT specific skills not in our skillset
1. Project Management
2. SAP
3. Business Management

Three highest general skills not in our skillset
1. Writing
2. Detail-Oriented
3. Creativity

The opinion of the group on their roles has not changed. Everybody has chosen these roles because they are passionate about that particular area. Just because some data shows it may not be the most sought after or popular doesn’t mean we shouldn’t do it.

IT Work
Software Engineer

Links:
Day in the life of a Software Engineer at Pinterest
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cynVxO6BNpQ
Day in the life of a Software Engineer 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wQbhpAmz2f8

A day in the life of a software engineer is a busy, but exciting one. Health tends to be of high priority, so eating healthy and exercising is a must. Software Engineering companies tend to be flexible on work times (starts and finishes) but the expectation is that you still complete all your work. The first task of the day tends to be checking emails, this is to ensure there is no problems that require immediate attention, or a shift in the days plan. Somewhere around the middle of the morning the team will get together and have what is known as a ‘stand up’. This is a meeting where everybody in your team, including managers stand in a circle, and communicate the following information to each other:
• Goals for the day
• What you plan to work on for the next 24 hours
• What you have been working on for the past 24 hours
• If you have any blockers (anything stopping you from continuing on a project)
• Seeking any advice or support from team members
The main advantage of the stand up is to make everybody aware of where you are at, and if they can help. Sometimes they might be the reason for you having a blocker, and might be able to directly fix it post meeting. In some situations after the stand up you may break off into smaller groups to discuss further some of the information that was presented in the stand up.
Communication is of vital importance and seems to take up a lot of a software engineers day. Because there is so much collaboration on projects, there is a lot of meetings to be had each day, where you can help others, or recieve help as you need it.
Meetings can range from project meeting, to whole team meetings, to one-on-one meetings to discuss personal development. In some businesses some meetings will be specifically for improving upon technical knowledge and rebounding ideas of each other to learn productively. 
From a technical standpoint, throughout the day you may schedule time to tasks such as; solving algorithmic problems, answering business related questions, code reviews, design reviews, peer reviews, meetings,  troubleshooting or bug fixing. 
As there is so much going on prioritising is very important, and scheduling time for this alone will go a long way to making your day a lot smoother. 

Security Engineer - Anna
A security engineer can be an in-house resource, or work as a consultant for other customers. For the latter case, for a new customer, the typical tasks usually start with an initial onboarding process, where the engineer conducts an initial assessment of the customer’s current IT system by reviewing the security infrastructure and policies, and how critical resources are performing and how they are monitored. He or she then produces a report of the assessment and any recommendation or action items to follow to fix or improve the security of the system. 
Then depending on the contract, would be routine maintenance, where the security engineer keeps monitoring the system with industry or custom tools and programs, response to security incidents in a timely manner, to ensure the system is running smoothly and securely.
Things will get busier when there is a major incident or breach where data is stolen or destroyed. The security engineer needs to take action immediately, usually as a team, to resolve the problem as soon as possible. It usually involves fixing the flaws causing the incidence, updating the system with latest patches, recovering data, and perform risk analysis that other teams can base on to follow up with their actions.
When things are not as busy, they would often spend time on research and development by keeping up with the latest security news and technologies, learning new techniques or spending time in labs, trying to break things to test their security. Some find this the most exciting part of their jobs. This usually results in new or improved security solutions for the system that help make it more stable and secure against future threats.  
The security engineer does not just work alone or within their own team. For those working as consultants, during the initial onboarding stage, they usually work with customers’ technical teams, mainly team leaders and project managers, to build expectations for monitoring and service level agreements (SLAs). In routine maintenance process, as the first point of contact, they often work closely with customers and other team members to identify and troubleshoot any detected vulnerabilities and security threats.
Most of the time, they spend on working at the company office, busy with their computers. Sometimes, however, they are out to attend security conferences or industry events or conduct seminars for transferring knowledge at customer sites.
Because of the nature of network attacks are unpredictable, the most challenge of the security engineer is the ability to quickly get updated, adapt and come up with solutions for security threats in a timely manner. Moreover, keeping up to date, researching and developing new techniques and policies to prevent future incidents is also a huge challenge for them. The security engineer has to constantly keep up with the latest exploits and attacks as well as apply latest technology to come up with effective solutions to secure their systems.
Security Engineer References:
Casey Martin. (2017). A day in the life of a ReliaQuest security engineer. Available: https://www.reliaquest.com/blog/day-life-reliaquest-security-operations-center-engineer/. Last accessed 21 April 2018.
Haiyan Song. (2017). Day in the Life of a Security Analyst (Part 1).Available: https://www.splunk.com/blog/2017/01/27/day-in-the-life-of-a-security-analyst-part-1.html. Last accessed 21 April 2018.
2-sec. (2015). A Day in the Life of a Cyber Security Professional – Tim Holman writing for Information Week. Available: https://www.2-sec.com/2015/06/day-life-cyber-security-professional-tim-holman-writing-information-week/. Last accessed 21 April 2018.

Professional Gamer-Hawa
The life of a Professional Gamer is an interesting one. 
Nothing sounds better than playing video games and getting paid for it however, it isn’t that simple. 
Becoming a professional gamer requires a lot of practice. 
The work of a pro gamer usually consists of entering competitions either alone or with a team to compete to win monetary prizes. 
Another way for gamers to earn a living is to become a youtuber. 
This consists of trying out new games and making recommendations and reviews. 
There are many gamers that have found success on YouTube such as Nadeshot, Pewdiepie and OpTic Gaming.
Pro gamers usually interact with their teams that consist of other gamers and their manager. 
They also interact with their fans that follow their success in competitions. 
They mostly spend their time at home practicing for competitions trying out new games and travelling to the locations of the competitions. 
The most challenging aspect of the life of a pro gamer is that to perfect your skills in gaming you need a lot of time to practice. 
This can clash with their other commitments such as work and schooling. 
Pro gamers may have to give up a priority to make time to practice if they truly wish to succeed in the industry.

Web Developer - Edward
Everyday life of a web developer consists of staying healthy everyday however there are times where they would set strict length of time
to get some rest but overall just enough to get them going for the day if needed, depending on the importance of tasks needed to be 
accomplished and also waking up early in the mornings to work on projects assigned by the project manager or in some cases where there 
are also freelancing web developers would be given jobs from their clients on the objective of their website, web developers will take 
that time to develop the applications during their everyday life just as similarly to regular web developers, while the only difference is the workplace. 
Regular Web Developers work at their office or workshop while minimally works at home while Freelancers work at home and use their home as a personal workspace.
The job of a IT Web Developer would consists of building E-Commerce stores, making website template designs or data cleansing list of customer products which would be uploaded 
to stores but it can also vary to databasing products into a catalogue and many more. 

Web Developers often vary their interactions from project managers of their team to general public or important clients, 
they would discuss details of the project and the client would approach them and ask for certain work to be completed. 
Face to Face approach would usually be a freelancer's choice to understand better what the client wants however if it’s a web developer 
working in a company, the project manager’s task would be approaching the client for data and resource which could help the developers achieve the objective better and deliver the product in quality. 
The most challenging aspect would mostly meeting the client’s requirements and also the time limitations to achieve the required functionalities needed to show the clients but also deliver a quality and efficient website for them.


Source/References:

YouTube. 2018. A Day In The Life: Chris Cordell, Web Developer at Blue Ocean Ideas - YouTube. [ONLINE] Available at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9QBPwQk3Pok. [Accessed 29 April 2018]


YouTube. 2018. A Day In The Life Of A Developer - Reiz Ariva - YouTube. [ONLINE] Available at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3yc5P9fo-OY. [Accessed 29 April 2018]

Vault. 2018. A Day in the Life of a Web Developer|Vault Blogs|Vault.com . [ONLINE] Available at: http://www.vault.com/blog/job-search/a-day-in-the-life-of-a-web-developer. [Accessed 29 April 2018]


IT Technologies

Machine Learning
The idea of Machine Learning began from the theory that computers can learn from recognising patterns without having to be programmed to do it, in a bit more depth; the computer uses algorithms to autonomously learn from data and information its given, it does not have to be explicitly programmed, it can adapt and improve its algorithms on its own. Machine Learning is known as a sub-set of Artificial Intelligence. 
The origins of Machine Learning can be dated back as far as ‘The Turing Test’, developed by Alan Turing in 1950. The test is designed to determine if a computer has real intelligence, to pass the test the computer must fool a human into believing it is also human. 
Since 1950 many milestones have been achieved in this subset, to list a few:
• In 1962 Arthur Samuel wrote the first computer learning program. It was used by the IBM computer to play the game of checkers, and the more it played, the better it became by studying which moves formed winning strategies and then incorporating them into its program.
• In 1967 the ‘nearest neighbour’ algorithm or the ‘travelling salesman problem’ as it is known today, was developed. This program allowed the computer to begin using basic pattern recognition, to map the route for a traveling salesman. The idea was to start in a random city but ensuring every city is visited using the shortest possible route.
• In the 1990’s an important change in direction occured. Machine Learning moved from a knowledge-driven approach to a data-driven approach(#ref). Programs were developed for computers to analyze large amounts of data and to then learn from the results.
• In 2006 the term ‘Deep Learning’ was coined by renowned computer scientist Geoffrey Hinton. 
After the bursts of progress between 1950 and the late 1980’s momentum in Machine Learning did slow for some time. But since 2010 momentum has been regained and some big steps have been taken. 

Currently the most impressive feat performed by Machine Learning was when Google’s artificial intelligence algorithm (known as AlphaGo) beat a professional Go player. The reason this is so significant is because GO is openly considered the world’s most complex board game.

Machine Learning algorithms are used widely in today’s society. Examples include:
• The finance industry where algorithms analyse data to prevent fraud or identify important insights that help investors to know when to trade.
• The transportation industry where algorithms are used to identify patterns in traffic data to help make routes more efficient or predicting potential problems. 
• In the healthcare industry algorithms can be used to help medical experts analyse large amounts of data to identify patterns or issues that may lead to improved diagnosis and treatment of patients.
• And ofcourse, it is used in the area self-driving vehicles. Machine learning algorithms are used to find solutions to challenges as they arise in the development of the vehicles. The data is gathered using a range of sensors in the car, which are controlled by the ECU.

The future of Machine Learning is very bright and there are so many new and innovative solutions coming that it’s just not practical to list them all, so I will try and list what I believe are the most important ones. It is suggested that the healthcare industry will be adapted heavily with machine learning algorithms. Adaptations include using algorithms to help prevent certain diseases and cancers, which is vitally important to the future of our society, another area will be in the development of more intelligent prostheses.
Another industry that will benefit greatly from these algorithms is the agricultural industry. In the future expect to see algorithms used to assess crop and soil health, to manage agricultural robots to perform farming tasks, and even predictive analysis to optimize business growth, and crop growth.

I think the main reason all this is becoming possible is because of the rapid growing interest in the field of Machine Learning, which is being driven harder than ever because of massive computer hardware improvements in recent times, which in turn has allowed us to collect more and better data than we have ever had before, which in turn leads to better algorithms and better application of Machine Learning.

What is the likely impact?
As stated above the potential impact of Machine Learning on the world is likely to be huge, but mostly in a positive direction. It is likely that there will be many changes, but to generalise a bit, humans will be doing less manual tasks, which will be done by algorithms, as they are faster and more accurate than us. In turn humans will spend more time interpreting results and implementing new procedures, or products based on the analytical results from the algorithms they use. Society will likely see a shift in job aspirations with the younger generations towards data analysis and sciences, programming will become a staple in schools (if it isn’t already), and overall we will hopefully become more efficient as a race. A lot of jobs will become redundant but lots more possibilities will open up and areas we haven’t even created yet. I think the most affected humans will be generation X, because they will be closer to retirement, and if their manual jobs become redundant they won’t have the time, or likely the understanding in most cases to make the shift to data and computer sciences.

How will this affect you?
As I am a information technology student with strong interests in Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence, this shift will only give me more opportunities career wise. For me I think the most valuable contribution I could make through machine learning is giving back through the healthcare sector. There is so much momentum and opportunity to save lives through computers and algorithms, and with an ageing population in Australia especially we will see an increase in a need for more efficient treatment plans and diagnosis processes. Another area I could see myself dealing with machine learning would be in the sports industry, maybe working with a professional team in AFL, using algorithms to develop winning plays and player strategies, to improve overall team performance week to week. This is a feasible idea because all players wear tracking devices in game and a company called Champion Data tracks everything about the players, from movement patterns to speeds to rest times to even hot and cold zones, all of which could be very useful in a machine learning environment.

IT Manager

Paragraph: IT Manager 
IT Managers are responsible for the whole company’s IT requirements, issues and potential growth ideas. IT managers 
assemble teams for projects, direct and supervise and or sometimes lead them. They could be receiving emails from departments 
like HR, Sales and security regarding an issue or questions on how to use a certain software making them the problem solvers 
of every company. IT managers interact with majority of the people such as, project managers, business managers they have 
individual staff meetings and even to the general public in the purpose of improving the company’s technology, fixing the 
issues and understanding the general public's wants and needs at that point in time. The higher the pool of people the higher 
the success rate as there is more data being collected.On a typical day and IT manager will be in the office answering emails on 
their desk and running around the office to either supervise a project or be in a meeting. Otherwise, this profession comes with 
a lot of flexibility and work can be done according to the their timetable, therefore leaving the them with a lot of time for 
their hobbies. This job comes with a lot of traveling to gather a lot of qualitative data that could be useful to the company, 
this means trips that last weeks outside the countries. Another reason for traveling could be meeting with another company for 
deals and further business opportunities.This job comes with a lot of workload and a requirement of a good understanding in every 
department, keeping that up could be hectic. Being in charge and responsible for the leadership position for many projects and keeping 
them organised would also be considered a challenging aspect.



Reference List

Machine Learning References:
SAS. (). Machine Learning What it is and why it matters. Available: https://www.sas.com/en_au/insights/analytics/machine-learning.html. Last accessed 15 April 2018.

Marr, B. (2016). A Short History of Machine Learning -- Every Manager Should Read. Available: https://www.forbes.com/sites/bernardmarr/2016/02/19/a-short-history-of-machine-learning-every-manager-should-read/#1f74dc7715e7. Last accessed 14 April 2018.

Ravindra, S. (2017). The Machine Learning Algorithms Used in Self-Driving Cars. Available: https://www.kdnuggets.com/2017/06/machine-learning-algorithms-used-self-driving-cars.html. Last accessed 14 April 2018.

The New Stack Makers. (2018). The Future Of Machine Learning.Available: https://soundcloud.com/thenewstackmakers/the-future-of-machine-learning. Last accessed 14 April 2018.

DashBouquet. (2017). Machine Learning and AI trends for 2018: What to Expect?. Available: https://hackernoon.com/machine-learning-and-ai-trends-for-2018-what-to-expect-96d3d74596ce. Last accessed 14 April 2018.

Brynjolfsson, E & Mcafee, A. (2017). WHAT’S DRIVING THE MACHINE LEARNING EXPLOSION?. Available: https://hbr.org/2017/07/whats-driving-the-machine-learning-explosion. Last accessed 14 April 2018.

Software Engineer References:
MaddyTechTV. (2018). Day in the life of a Software Engineer at a Tech company. Available: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cynVxO6BNpQ. Last accessed 19 April 2018.

Morgan, S. (2018). A Day In The Life Of A Software Engineer. Available: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wQbhpAmz2f8. Last accessed 19 April 2018.

Blockchain and cryptocurrencies - Anna
Blockchain is a technology that powers cryptocurrencies like bitcoin and Ethereum. It provides a distributed system which is basically a digital ledger that can record transactions between two parties in an efficient, verifiable and permanent.
The system is secure by design, in that identical blocks of information are stored across its network in a decentralised manner and there is no single point of failure. The robustness of the technology, together with its transparency – everyone can access the record transactions publicly and verify them – and other strengths, have made Blockchain one of the most current influential and promising technologies with a lot of potential to disrupt or replace many traditional industries and businesses.

The blockchain is made up by a network of ‘nodes’, computers connected to the blockchain network to perform tasks of validating and relaying transactions, with the incentive to be possibly rewarded by earning the cryptocurrency of the network. Unlike the traditional model, this is a peer-to-peer network requiring no central servers or any intermediate nodes to authenticate or approve transactions.
Thanks to its underlying cryptography and hashing techniques, it is very difficult to tamper the transactions. The decentralised structure makes it incorruptible and almost unhackable. Not only transaction information is publicly accessible, but also the implementations are mostly open source for public scrutiny. All these things have made blockchain a platform for truth, where everyone can trust it. This is an important point that made cryptocurrencies possible and helped blockchain become popular in the recent years.

Blockchain, as a technology, is evolving quickly. First introduced with bitcoin, as innovative as it was, it came with some problems. Transactions can take a long time to finish which is undesirable in many cases. It also requires a lot of computational power and energy from the nodes. New technologies have emerged, particularly with Ethereum or some other new cryptocurrencies, have made the transactions faster and more robust. The new technology also made Ethereum not just a cryptocurrency but also a platform, where other forms of transactions can be made, and helps enable smart contracts which can be applied in many financial and business transactions. Blockchain is expected to continue to evolve quickly and be mature enough to be popular in many traditional services in the next three years.

At the moment blockchain is mostly used in cryptocurrencies, where it acts as the underlying technology that allows two parties to send and receive money in digital format using public and private key pairs. However, blockchain, with its innovative features, is also being applied in the financial and banking sector where traditional methods are not very efficient, such as to speed up cross border payments, reduce fraud, enable smart contracts and real-time point-to-point transfer of funds between financial institutions and thus remove frictions and accelerate settlement. As more people are realising the benefits and potential of blockchain and are investing heavily into it, blockchain is expected to also disrupt or revolutionise IT sectors such as cloud computing as well as traditional industries such as shipping industry, with big names like Maersk and Hyundai are testing blockchain in their logistic network and transport network, according to Bloomberg.

The nature of blockchain, as a great place to store, retrieve and verify information, will also allow other information related fields such as supply chain management, copyright registration, insurance industry, logistic industry, online voting, managing medical records. Some companies such as Samsung and IBM are also looking into applying blockchain into Internet of Things, to create a decentralised network of IoT devices. 

What is the likely impact? 
Blockchain, with its innovative and revolutionary technologies, is likely to bring in huge impact to many industries. With the ability of preventing single point of failure as well as guaranteeing the integrity of data storage on the system, it will make services and transactions in banking and financial industry not only faster but also more reliable. Many banks have started researching or already applied blockchain to their systems. Also with smart contracts and other features, blockchain will also be likely to disrupt some traditional industries like logistics, insurance, etc. where data storage and processing is important. For the industries and sectors mentioned above, many process currently requiring a lot of human operation and intervention will be automated when blockchain is applied. It will likely result in significant loss of jobs, particularly manual and labour positions, and make many current technologies obsolete. Of course one of the biggest factor of blockchain is cryptocurrency. Cryptocurrencies like bitcoin has already made a big impact to the financial world, with a considerable amount of transactions made through these virtual coins. Their impact can only be greater with times. In addition, the combination of blockchain with other innovative technologies such as IoT will result in a lot of innovation that may help revolutionise even more fields and hopefully will help improve the quality of life of many people.

How will this affect you? 
This technology really changed my mindset in thinking of data should be recorded, processed and stored in the future. Until now traditional database systems like SQL and NoSQL are still dominant. However with blockchain comes into the picture with its innovative features making data stored in a secured and reliable manner, I think there are good opportunities to improve the existing these existing technologies. From a career perspective, as an IT student aiming to become a software developer in the future, I’m looking forward to study this technology and get some hands-on experience with it, to understand its mechanism and how to apply it. I also have plan to create a small private blockchain, and try to see if I can apply it for creating a system to manage digital certificates of students in education system, that can be verified via blockchain network. With that I hope that I can be ready when blockchain is really mature and become one of the essential technologies for software developer in the future.

Blockchain References:
Wikipedia. (2018). Blockchain. Available: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blockchain. Last accessed 20 April 2018.

Ameer Rosic. (2016). What is Blockchain Technology? A Step-by-Step Guide For Beginners. Available: https://blockgeeks.com/guides/what-is-blockchain-technology/. Last accessed 20 April 2018.

Don Tapscott. (2016). How blockchains could change the world.Available: https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/high-tech/our-insights/how-blockchains-could-change-the-world. Last accessed 20 April 2018.

Jon Martindale. (2018). What is a blockchain? Here’s everything you need to know. Available: https://www.digitaltrends.com/computing/what-is-a-blockchain/. Last accessed 20 April 2018.

Kyunghee Park. (2018). Blockchain Is About to Revolutionize the Shipping Industry. Available:https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-18/drowning-in-a-sea-of-paper-world-s-biggest-ships-seek-a-way-out. Last accessed 20 April 2018.

Future Thinkers. (2017). 19 Industries The Blockchain Will Disrupt.Available: https://futurethinkers.org/industries-blockchain-disrupt. Last accessed 20 April 2018.

 
Natural Language Processing and Chatterbots - Hawa

Natural language processing an area of computer science also know as computational linguistics is used to learn, understand and produce human language content (Hirschberg and Manning, 2015). 
Using computational linguistics, the chatterbot, a computer program can conduct conversation with humans (Deryugina, 2010).
chatterbots are being used all over the world even though we may not know it. 
Your GPS, Siri and answering machines are all examples of chatterbots that we use daily.
The history of natural language processing first came into place when scientists attempted to input the vocabularies and rules of human languages into computers, which was difficult as language can be quite ambiguous (Hirschberg and Manning, 2015).
From the 1980s to 1990s natural language processing was transformed as scientists began to build large quantities of language data also known as a “body of words” (Hirschberg and Manning, 2015).
One of the first advanced chatterbots however was created before this. 
In 1966 Joseph Weizenbaum developed the chatterbot known as ELIZA which made a great impression on the direction that computational linguistics headed (Deryugina, 2010).
From then on, more chatterbots were created imitating ELIZA while also incorporating more language data into their chatterbots.  
The way that these chatterbots work is that they process the users input which could be a phrase or statement. 
Features within the chatterbot process the phrase and scan for keywords that then evoke a response based on the user’s phrase (Deryugina, 2010). 
An issue that chatterbots may face with this is that language is constantly evolving, and people often use colloquial terms when speaking that the chatterbot may not recognise. 
So similar to Natural language processing, chatterbots are constantly being evolved in order to keep up with the changes in language and expression.
Computational linguistics is an ever-growing sector of IT with innovations that continue to amaze us. 
Chatterbots have “revolutionised the customer service industry” (Murray Newlands, 2017, para 1).
A few of the best advancements in this area being the creation of Siri, Alexa and even google home. 
These creations allow users to give commands to the device like “turn of the lights” and “call mum”.
The future innovations of chatterbots are looking to increase the efficiency of chatterbots as a weakness they face is their lack of empathy and problem-solving skills (Murray Newlands, 2017) 
inventors wish to increase the use of chatterbots for other areas rather than the straightforward customer services they currently provide.
A few things that will make this possible in the future is large companies such as Facebook, Snapchat and WhatsApp that are willing to invest to reduce the need for assisting customers directly and chatterbots provide that solution.
What is the likely impact? 

The likely impact of this is the great advancements in technology that the world will have and that these chatterbots will create a shorter wait time regarding customer service. 
Large companies will look to invest into the development of chatterbots as it will reduce the amount of people they will have to pay for customer service jobs. 
This however creates a disadvantage to those of lower socioeconomic status as they are the ones that usually occupy customer service jobs. 
It will put them out of work the same way creating self-serving checkouts that are located all over large supermarkets nowadays did. 
Although this advancement in technology will create jobs for those that are looking to work in the IT industry it cuts out those that don’t have the privilege of education and the degrees they require to secure these jobs.
 How will this affect you? 

In my daily life I think this advancement will be great as it means that I would not have to wait for hours in order to speak to someone when I face an issue with a service. 
I think what would make this experience different is that instead of voicing my queries to a person on the phone it would be a computer.
Although these technological advancements are great and feed into our fast-paced society it reduces the chance of human communication which is something that has become quite apparent in our society as technology is quickly replacing jobs that were once held by humans. 
This would affect me and my family most as I have family members overseas and some that live here that hold customer service jobs. 
With this advancement they would lose their jobs and unlike Australia they live in America where education is not as easily accessible and it reduces their chances in employment as the jobs that don’t require a degree usually fall under customer service.

Robots referencing. 
Simon, M., Simon, M., Molteni, M., Allain, R., Chen, S., Molteni, M., Beiser, V. and Gonzalez, R. (2018). What Is a Robot?. [online] WIRED. Available at: https://www.wired.com/story/what-is-a-robot/ [Accessed 28 Apr. 2018].

The Uptrends Blog. (2018). What is the state of robotics in 2016? | The Uptrends Blog. [online] Available at: https://blog.uptrends.com/technology/what-is-the-state-of-robotics-in-2016/ [Accessed 28 Apr. 2018].

 Jones, R. and Jones, T. (2018).
Robots Are Already Replacing Human Workers At An Alarming Rate. [online] Gizmodo Australia. Available at: https://www.gizmodo.com.au/2017/03/robots-are-already-replacing-human-workers-at-an-alarming-rate/ [Accessed 28 Apr. 2018].

IT Manager references:
YouTube. (2018). IT Manager - A day in the life. [online] Available at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hFhuMGanjT8 [Accessed 28 Apr. 2018]. 

YouTube. (2018). A Day in the Life of an IT Manager - Meet Todd | Part 1. [online] Available at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HfiIzKFNwMo [Accessed 28 Apr. 2018].


Nitya’s reflection 
I think our group cooperated very well with each other by communicating many ideas and splitting the work equally and fairly. We were able to maintain a good contact with each other through Facebook group chat, which allowed us to reflect on our status and discuss what needed to be done to accomplish our set goals for that time. Understanding GitHub was more complicated than I expected, a deeper understanding (as a group) on how it works would’ve been an improvement. What I found surprising is how well the group communication was and how high the agreeableness was amongst each other. Even though we have different personalities we were likeminded and that worked very well in our favour. The other thing I was surprised by was how much information I could find for the sections I was covering, like robots. This assignment has allowed me to broaden my knowledge of the IT world and how it can be impacted in the future, which I find very useful. My group was very understanding and supportive, they were willing to help and were supportive in every way possible. We all gelled very well together. Using GitHub may have been a good way to share information but the better and more efficient way would have been Google Docs, which we also used.

Edward’s Reflection
Overall I like the group contribution effort that has been allocated to everyone. Communication wise we are all response ready and stable, everyone was able to keep the flow and if anyone needed help someone would always be there to listen and give suggestions on what to do, however we could’ve improve in our working speed in getting most of the work done but overall it was still manageable and personality wise surprisingly the whole group was very energetic and keen to keep the flow of work going, everyone was surprisingly cooperative and positive about the project’s direction. One thing I do like about the groups is the capacity of being able to learn what each individual is capable of and the strength and weaknesses of each member of the team and as a team we can learn to help each other. Github wasn’t exactly the most optimal tool to use for documentation especially unless it’s coding because it does get confusing at one point, where you have to keep merging branch with another remote branch then rebase it and etc, however I wouldn’t recommend it more than anything else unless you’re coding, Google Documents would be a better alternative as you can share your work with your team and they can hop in anytime and work on it.

Anna Reflection
We formed our group by accident as we did not know each other before but happened to sit next to each other on the day the group was formed. However, I think, our group turned out to be working quite well, more than I expected. One of the things that I think we did well is we have had a clear plan right from the beginning, with tasks broken down and assigned to each member. Therefore, we all knew what we had to do and so could started early and got our part done. I am usually a person who prefers working flexibly, but I quickly learned that this style did not suit the group work very well, and I was both happy and surprised by myself that I could have forced myself to be discipline and worked hard to complete my part of the group work. This is an important lesson that I will remember. Another thing I have learned is communication is very important in the group work. Any miscommunication would lead to duplicate work or work going off-track. I found regular and effective communication has been important in our collaboration. We could share ideas and updates of our progress, as well as helping each other solve problems. Communication is also something that I think we can improve. We all had different schedules and timetables and it was difficult at times to have group meetings, especially face-to-face meetings outside of class. Sometimes it has led to misunderstanding and delay in work. I also learned to use Git and have found it to be invaluable in keeping track of our group work. We could submit new updates and edit existing work with confidence as we know all the changes were logged and tracked, and they could be revised or undo in unexpected situations. In conclusion, it has been a great experience and I have learned good lessons that I will carry with me to new group works in the future.


Project Idea
PPTA(Personal Public Transport Assistant) is a project idea developed by IT Crowd, it is an application that provides personal assistance to users who relies on public transportation throughout Australia, our aim now is to make their experience more efficient with their planning and more reliable for them which thus would make it less stressful for them if they potentially forget about their plans ahead. The problems users face that motivates us is the amount of times people tend to forget about when or where to get to their destination, these problems usually leads users to forgetting to get off at a certain stop or resting in the public transportation which leads to the problem of reaching their destination in time. Thus, motivating us to create an application that is designed to remind the user when will they reach and also it is designed like GPS tracker following the user’s location and movement to keep track on when or where to set off the reminder.
The primary function of the application is for user to create a set of reminders when to depart and when to arrive or the time to 
transit, one of the essential features of this application would be the ‘Reminders’. Many ways to set up reminders. 
User can set a reminder to the last stop before the destination or the next transit, this allows the user to feel less stressed and relax
during the trip to their intended location, however the user will have to press the stop button right after the bus goes to a stop.
The application can also set timed and distance reminders before the destination for example (X minutes or X meters before the 
destination), just enough time before the destination. The application also uses phone GPS to keep track of the user’s location and 
movement in real time in the background, so that it can calculate the time and distance from the source to the destination, along with 
the remaining stops along the way and occasionally the application will remind the user how long till the user reaches the destination.
In order to improve user experience, by default the application will analyze the trip and automatically suggest a reminder of one stop 
before the destination, user can choose to turn it off if necessary but otherwise it is recommended to leave it on or set more reminders if necessary. User can also save the trip to a favourites tab which would function at the background along with all the other reminders they have set. They can also sort or rename these trips to however they like.
Potential project issues that we may come across would be the amount of experience we need to be able to achieve the right competency to
get the right results and quality for the application to function as most of our members are still within the basic level of learning 
Java and Java Scripting thus building a application would be a little bit hard, however with proper research it would possibly take some length time to complete a prototype at least, nevertheless it’s still possible to complete. Another potential problem would be the timeframe of completion for this project, We would estimate a plausible prototype would at least take a span of 4 or 5 weeks depending how much extensive research we could do, but this is with only one feature in. However to achieve all of the features would at least take 14 or 15 weeks of completion but this is including every members time needed alone for their own self research.
Our group will most likely use an android application development program called Android Studio which is a world class code editing, 
debugging, performance tool and flexible build system which allows an instant build/deploy system all allow you to focus on building 
unique and high quality application. Our group would mostly also spend time focusing on how to use Android Studio as well as part of our individual research to avoid clashing with any timeline plans made for project development. Other tools we use to communicate and make changes would be Facebook Messenger to keep updates and connect with other group members should they be unavailable to attend to our weekly group meetings. Github is used for updating our coding or documentation that everyone is connected with by making a branch and merge with a pull request to update the project development or documentation.

Overall as a team we analyzed the advantages and disadvantages of the project, and weighed out what needs to be implemented as a core 
feature and what is an extended feature to be able to make a prototype and the end product in time, possible two main features and two 
extended features would be sufficient as a first project and improve later on for future project developments and start building up our 
skills as a team to improve the quality of the application to make it user friendly and efficient to use for all users.
The whole purpose of the project is to provide the solutions to many of the general public's problems of navigation issues such as
how most people would be forgetful that they’ll have to leave at X stop or get on X location and move to Y location by a certain time 
frame, this application’s features are designed for this purpose to help prevent any users to worry less about needing to remember when 
or where to stop and get on their location. 
